---
layout: page
title: "Overview"
order: 0
category: intro
date: 2015-04-20 17:21:18
---

The goal of `OpenPub` content is simple: **write once, read everywhere**.

Today, that's surprisingly difficult. You'll likely want to "hand publish" your work to Facebook, Twitter, Pinterest, and so on --- especially if you want people to read it.

As a writer/editor/journalist/human, optimizing your content for a zillion platforms is probably not the best use of your time. Your job shouldn't be writing weird markup or posting things at 2 AM or `hacking the system`. Your job is to tell an engaging story... engagingly.

The platforms, on the other hand, understand their users really well. They know how to present content efficiently and to the right people at the right time. They understand the infrastructure. You understand the story.

So how do we work together more efficiently?

### The Problem

The web is a messy place. Each platform works differently. You need to babysit your content and craft it carefully for each and every platform that people use. That's mighty inefficient -- can't we do better?

### The Solution

This is what `OpenPub` is all about: providing a single, simple, and clear way to communicate your story to **all** the platforms at once. Stop fretting about the details. Put the superstitions away. Focus on telling your story. 

Very importantly:

 - It's not a painful standard.
 - It's not a new format.
 - It's not a radical, new idea.

`OpenPub` is a simple tool to make your content more portable and more accessible. Write once, read everywhere.

### ... _But_ Am I Losing Control?

Publishers want as large an audience as possible. Networks want to grow engagement. These two goals are not competitive; in fact, they're collaborative. OpenPub acknowledges the machinery of the web and provides a means of collaborating such that everyone -- publishers and platforms alike -- are better off.
